[Music]
Nothing felt good today. Nothing felt
good
today. Today I'm a little bit nervous
because it's squat day. I'm nervous
every squat day. planning on squatting
260 kg for four reps. A lot of the times
when I film myself, I like to say I
won't even say what I'm going to do
because what if I miss it? But when I
tell you guys at the start of the
session, it motivates me to make sure I
don't miss. Uh the reality is I really
could miss 260 for four. Um that's a
personal best while I'm at this body
weight. And then you're in for a treat
because I'm going to give you the most
complete leg day that you can do in the
gym. I'm going to take you through every
single exercise that you can add to your
heavy squats to make sure that you're
not missing out any muscles in your
lower body to make sure you're not only
strong, but also you build the right
muscles in all the right places and you
look good as well. I've spent a lot of
time and money and effort and experience
and all that stuff and work with some of
the best of the best people in the world
to learn this information and I'm just
giving it to you. Use it. You better use
it. Honestly, like when I first started,
all I thought you had to do for for legs
is just squat and just go deep and
that's all. Don't worry about technique.
But there's so much more to squatting
than just putting a bar on your back and
going up and down. There is so much that
I've learned with how to hold the bar,
how to position on your back, where to
look, where to position your feet, what
to do with your feet that makes so much
difference with your squat that I had no
idea for the first decade at least. But
I'm going to share all of these little
secrets with you so you don't have to go
through 10 years of learning all of the
wrong things. You can just come in on
day one and learn from me now and start
applying these principles and succeed.
Why would you want to listen to me?
Well, I'm glad you asked. Well, I'm
actually a pretty good squatter myself.
My best ever in competition is 375 kg in
the 110 kg class. Uh but also in
training a year later I squatted 400 kg
through co there was no competition so
unfortunately it was just a competition
lift but I've also trained some of the
best squatters in the world many people
stronger than me including Thor Bjönson
who squatted 460 kg so that's why you
should be listening to me the techniques
work and I of course learned this from
someone who's even better than all of us
and that's Eric Liybridge who squatted
480 kg at 140 kg weight class. So, he
taught me everything I know about
squatting. Him and his dad, Ernie
Senior. Shout out to those guys. You
know, a lot of people are going to say,
"Oh, but this way is better and that way
is better." There are many ways to skin
a cat. But if I found a way that you
could squat 480 kgs with, I'd think
that's a pretty damn good technique,
don't you think? Well, anyway, that's
the technique that I'm using and that's
the technique that I'm going to be
teaching you guys today. Starting with
the empty barbell. Um, look at this. I
got my belt on. Why are you using a belt
for an empty barbell? Well, this is
something I like to do. Check out this
lever belt. This is Pioneer. Um, this
has multiple
um increments. So, this is the loosest
one. So, it's not really that tight,
right? So, I go on the loosest. It's not
really that tight. It's just like I say,
if you're going to use equipment in your
top sets, I like to warm up with the
same equipment. A lot of people say,
"But then you're going to get a weak
core and all these." No, because I do a
lot of work without a belt as well. So,
this is my empty
barbell set number
one. I don't know how many reps. Lots of
them. Lots of them. You know, 10ish,
something like that. Look at my grip.
That's because my shoulders are cold and
tight and I did heavy benching on the
weekend, right? So, look where I'm
holding the bar. I'm holding it on the
collars. But then as I warm up, my
shoulders get looser and looser and I
bring my hands in. Right? So the rule is
hold the bar as close as your shoulder
mobility allows. So I'll probably get to
about here on my top set. But for now, I
might just do one more set of an empty
bar. And I'm going to set up my trusty
camera every set. Make sure that I've
got another set of eyes telling me what
I did and didn't do correctly. That's
what you should do. Set up a camera.
Give yourself feedback. You know, if you
guys have been following me, you'll see
that I uh do my warm-ups on a leg press.
So, I did do that. Uh you don't have to,
but I just like to be a little bit more
thorough with bending my knees for lots
and lots and lots of reps so that by the
time I get to my first set of barbell
squats, um it's comfortable. So, that
was relatively comfortable. But, yeah, I
did, um have a look at the leg press.
There's only three plates each side. So,
it's not that much, you know. I did one
plate, lots of reps. Two plates, lots of
reps. Three plates, lots of reps. And
now I go to the empty barbell where I do
two sets, lots of reps, and then I'm
warm. I'm not even going to record this
first set because it's still a barbell.
So, I'll do one more set and then I'm
going to start adding
weight. So, it's just, you know, I could
go closer, but it's just like tight on
the shoulders. All right. Look at my
stance. Pretty wide, right? Yeah. This
is how I get the most out of my hips. If
you stand, if you want to train quads,
you know, you get heel elevated shoes
and you go a little bit closer, bend
your knees more. But this is the way
that I like to
stand. Open my
hips and get the most out of my strong
hips up. So, low bar squat, hip
dominant, hip dominant. And I'm
positioning myself so that I can use.
So, the main joints we're using is hip
joint and knee joint. The more you bend
your knees, the more quads you build.
I'm not bending my knees that much. So,
this isn't a very good quad builder. I'm
using my hips and my back. So, this is
going to allow me to lift a heavier
weight. But technically, I'm not going
to lie, it doesn't build much legs,
which is why you have to do quadricep
accessory exercises to complement these
squats, which I'm going to be taking you
guys through after this. My max for the
session, well, it's not really a max
max. Well, my top set is what we're
going to call it, is going to be 260 kg
for four reps. That's the goal. So, if
you've been following my journey, which
I don't expect you've been doing, uh,
but either way, this is something that I
like to do. It's called, I guess if you
were to call it any style of
periodization. It's weekly undulating
periodization where I go one week is a
heavy single which was last week I did
285 kg and then the following week is
rep work and then the following week
will be another heavy single and then
the following week will be rep work. So
um my rep work today is 260 for four
which is hard. That's going to be uh the
most I've
done in a long time man. So, I'm super
nervous if I'm being honest, which
you're probably going to hear in my
voice as I get closer and closer to my
top weight is I'll probably speak less
and less cuz I'm getting more and more
focused. But I don't need to be super
focused right now because it's only
light. And that's the thing with focus
is it can be fatiguing, right? So, if
you sit there and it's like, you know,
you're switched on from the empty
barbell and you get psyched up and all
those things, that's really, really
fatiguing, and I don't need that fatigue
for these weights. So, I need to save my
energy. Um, it'll be good to know what's
the time right now. 11:32. All right.
So, you know, of course, I've been
warming up for about 15 minutes already,
so we'll see. All right. So, I've got no
choice but to put my hands inside the
collars now, so I'm going slightly
closer.
First weight 70 kg.
[Music]
Okay, I'm going to do one more set on
that, but in the
meantime, hydration. So, what's this?
Water with salt. So, it's about half a
liter of water and half a teaspoon of
salt. Why salt? Because that's how you
hydrate yourself. This is sodium and
that's what we need to be replenishing
oursel with during our session. This is
what I consider to be the best
pre-workout and during workout drink,
not pre-workout supplements. So, all of
the stimulating supplements you have,
I'm not huge on that except for caffeine
of course, which I do like. And this is
all tea for a few people in session, but
this is my coffee long black. That's my
caffeine. That's my, you know,
pre-workout stimulant. But otherwise,
salt water is my pre-workout. That's not
a stimulant, and I think this is
actually more effective. All
right. Now, what we're going to do, I'm
going to reset that weight. So, 70 kg
again, and I'm going to go one rep all
the way up. So, every weight, one rep.
And my goal is to use the same technique
every single time I approach the
barbell.
So that by the time I get to the top
set, I've refined the technique that I'm
going to be using. Had lots of practice
at it and I don't have to think. You
know, when you're doing a top set, you
don't want to think. You want to just
do. Right. So now I think, right? So
let's have a look. Here's the rules.
Hands as close as shoulder mobility
allows. We already established my
shoulder mobility doesn't allow me to go
closer than this. So this is tight for
me. But for most people, it'll be a lot
closer than that.
resting the barbell on your rear delts
for a low bar squat. Okay, now feet
under the bar. Watch this. Okay, so I
prepare myself. Take a big
brace. Right, so there's my brace. Now I
want to take three steps to get out of
the rack. The first step is straight
back. Then we go to the side and then
the other side. So that's three steps.
That's the most efficient way to walk
out your squats. Now take a big breath
to brace.
Why do we take three steps? I'm glad you
asked. Well, normally if you squat in a
gym, which is a normal power rack, these
racks are usually wider. Like I've set
these here so that I can put my hands on
the outside of the bar, but most gyms
don't have that. Power rack doesn't have
that. Right? So, you have to have your
hands on the inside of the rack. And so,
these racks are quite wide, right? So,
what a lot of people do by mistake is
when they're walking out their barbells,
these plates, they hit the uprights,
boom, boom, boom, and they uh ruin their
set. Especially if it's a top set, you
don't want to be bumping into anything.
So, the best way to not bump the racks
is the first step that you take needs to
be straight back. So, that's what a lot
of people do. They think, I got to
separate my legs here. So they unrackck
and they go one step to the side. See
how my whole body and all those B the
plates will also come to the side,
right? You don't want to do that because
that's where you bump the plates on the
rack. So the first step must be straight
back. So that's step number one. Then we
can go side to get it. So it's obvious,
right? That the less steps you take, the
less energy you use. You know, compare
three steps to 10 steps. You don't want
to be doing that with a top set. You
want to take as few steps as possible.
So less steps is better. So why not just
two steps? Remember, if it's just two
steps, the first step must be to the
side and the second step must be to the
side. You're going to bump the racks. So
that's why three steps is more
efficient. So you can go one step
straight back, clear the rack, then we
go
side. And that is how you walk out. The
most perfect walk out squat you can do.
You're welcome. All right. So
incremental increases because of the
plate
selection and ease of use. I'm going red
plate, which is 25 each side. So that's
50 total. So what I want to do is jump
up in half that incremental increase. So
it's red, red and half. Two reds, two
and a half. Three reds, three and a
half, four reds. Then I'm going to
change to a blue. So it's 25 kg jump up
until 220. And then I'll go 20 kg jump,
240, 20 kg jump, 260. And then I do my
top set. So right now I just did 70. Now
it's 95. Chalk on the back. You did it
as well. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. See,
what you want to do with a low bar
squat, it's less secure than a high bar
squat. On a high bar squat, it balances
on your traps. But on a low bar squat,
you've got to create a strong shelf on
your back for it to sit on. So the
strong shelf is your rear delts combined
with your hands holding it. But even if
you have chalk on your
back, it's a little bit more secure. All
right. So now I'm going to do that whole
process without talking and
just squat. Watch the technique I use.
It's going to be the same every time.
Did you check out the
tempo? Start slow, gradually accelerate
in and out of the hole. All right, so
that's my strategy. That's my favorite
tempo. And I know that a lot of people
agree with me as well, but there's some
people that go slower, some people that
go faster, but I think that's optimal.
Now, here's the thing. Why would you go
faster? Because fast down equals fast
up. That's the law of kinetic energy,
right? So that's a technique that a lot
of great squatters
use and in weightlifting they call that
dive bombing. So weightlifterss, that's
the sport you see in the Olympics, the
clean injection and the snatch. They
need to be fast because they're
explosively throwing a weight up and
they got to drop as fast as they can
underneath the weight. So it suits them
very well to practice dropping really
really fast. But powerlifterss don't
need to do that. All a powerlifter needs
to do is squat a heavy weight. Right?
Something I say, precision beats
power. I say it like it's my own thing.
It's a Conor McGregor quote. When he
knocked out Jose Aldo, that's when I
heard him say it. Whether he made it up
or whether he got it from someone,
that's another story. Precision beats
power. Timing beats speed, right? So, I
use that a lot because it really makes
sense here. Precision beats power. Now,
if you drop really, really fast, well,
the likelihood of you losing precision
increases, right? You got to be really,
really good. Um, which is possible to
practice and get good. That's what
weightlifterss do. But the likelihood of
being able to do that under a max
weight is really hard to do. If you can
imagine, like, think about what do you
look like when you're doing your max
weight. Are you comfortable or are you
shaky? Are you nervous? Are you
confident to get the most weight you've
ever done? Like I'll tell you now, there
are people in this world that can squat
four times their body weight. Imagine
you with four times your body weight
going down as fast as you can. Would you
be confident doing that? Because I know
I wouldn't. So that's why when it comes
to powerlifting, my preference is a
little bit slower but more precise. But
it's not just all slow. Okay? So that's
the technique that I like. It's to start
slow,
right? and
gradually accelerate in and out of the
hole so that we can
utilize the stretch reflex, you know,
the kinetic energy, fast down equals
fast up, all of that stuff, but not in
absence of technique and precision
because precision beats power, remember?
So, what needs to be precise? What needs
to be precise? The bar path needs to
line up under maximum loads precisely
with the the middle of my foot, right?
So, if I go really fast and I fall
forward slightly. Boom. That's no
precision and that's weak. I want to
precisely land so the bar path, the
barbell is exactly in line with my
midoot when I push as hard as I can.
That's the most efficient position.
Before I go, I'm just going to check my
last squat to see if there's anything
that I did
wrong. Fine.
You know, I'm expecting it to be fine
because it's quite light. But
still, I do many things
wrong. No one's perfect, you know.
sweating in a singlet, it gets slippery.
My shoulders get very, very sweaty and
the bar slips down. So, I put chalk on
there and it still didn't do anything.
Like I just changed t-shirts, but it
felt a lot nicer just because I changed
the t-shirt. It's so strange.
Like, you know, the speed of the
lift is kind of like it feels like it's
coming up at the right speed, right?
unrackcking it. It just feels
uncomfortable today. Everything feels
really uncomfortable. But, you know,
this is why I record myself because how
you feel is a lie.
And how it looks so far is Yeah. Looks
like I'm strong enough to do it. So,
I've just got to keep on going. This is
why I like
uh recording my sessions for YouTube and
having you guys hold me accountable
because when I come in the session, like
a lot of the times when I'm not training
for anything, so if I got no competition
on or I'm not making a YouTube video, I
can very easily come in and say, you
know what, it's feeling uncomfortable
today, make up some excuse and I'll say,
I'll save for next week when I'm feeling
better. Uh,
[Music]
but the show must go on, which is what I
love about doing this, like doing these
YouTube videos and setting goals, you
know, even committing to a competition.
It's like, well, you've got no choice.
You know, if you commit to a competition
or if you commit to something, I don't
care how you feel, you've got to do it,
right? So although I'm not really
training for a competition, you know,
I'm not uh excluding the idea of
training for a competition, but you
know, making content that's an
initiative that I want to make for you
guys. Um I'm holding myself
accountable and you'll see like not
every day goes to plan. You don't feel
great every time. Um but you guys will
see like maybe I'll get it, maybe I
won't. I don't know. But I'm going to
keep on
going. 220, 240, and then we're on.
Moved. Okay, so that was 195. Next up,
220. Let's go.
Okay.
What do you look at when you watch
yourself? Again, when I'm watching
myself,
so you know, sometimes the main thing
I'm looking at is depth. Like, am I
hitting depth? Yeah, I'm just on uh then
what I'm looking at
is the even distribution of hips and
knees, right? So, a lot of the times
it's very easy to just fold in half and
use your back a lot. Um, and I kind
of when you do that, you don't use your
quads as much. So, that's what I feel
like I'm kind of doing a little bit too
much. So, I
think like it feels hard because I'm
using a lot of my
back. So, technically, I think I need to
focus on bending my knees more and being
more upright so I can use my quads a
little bit better. Right? So there, what
I see is it's like I'm segmenting the
movement, which is what I don't agree
with. So I go back here and then I bend
the knees. I don't like that. That
forces my torso to tip too far forward.
And that's
where, you know, I know I say your back
is strong. It is strong, but it's not as
strong as if I'm using my back with my
legs. I want efficient. I think I'm
bending over too much at my hips. I got
to try and be a little bit more upright
and really use my quads. Let's see how
we go. Next step
[Music]
24. Come on.
Come on.
Stand up. [__] yeah. [__] yeah. [__]
[__] You're in. You're in. You're in.
And they all Nothing felt good today.
Nothing felt good today. I swear had I
not had like this video for YouTube and
all that stuff, I'd have definitely
looked at that 240 and said, "You know
what? It's not worth it. It's not
happening today." But anyway,
anyway, when I when I unracked it, when
I unracked it, it felt
light. It's like felt lighter than what
the 220 felt.
The first rep I actually buckled. So I
lost tension in the hole in the first
rep. You You know, I swear I'm going I
can do five. Yeah.
But then I thought, you know what? It's
not worth
it.
Yeah. Thanks, man.
He's been with me every time, you know
what I mean? Can't leave him out just
cuz you guys are here, you know what I
mean? He's been here kissing me every
time. Nothing wrong with kissing your
bro after a PB. You know what I mean?
You know what I mean? Here's a fun fact.
This is the first session you made had
with a music. Yeah, that's right. I
needed the music today. So, how's that?
Right. So, every session I've been doing
it, you know, for YouTube. um you don't
you can't use music for for YouTube. You
have to mute it out. So um that's why
I've been doing everything in the
silence. But today was a real battle for
me. Everything felt terrible. Um it
ended up being okay. Uh as I said, how
you feel is a lie. Um you know, mid rep,
sorry, on the on mid set. I was
thinking, should I do five? And I
thought, no, there's no point doing
that. Imagine I miss and then I just But
I think I like when I look back like I
had a fifth rep. My best on that is
eight reps, but I was heavier then by
about 10 kilograms. Um, anyway, so all
I'm doing is a one and done squat. I'm
doing squats on other sessions, but it's
a oneanddone top set. Now, uh, that's
very hip dominant movement. So, hips are
adductors, yes, glutes, and of course
your back as well. And of course, a
little bit quads, but not that much. And
actually, not that much hamstrings,
right? So, um, what we're going to do is
hit the muscles that we neglected in
this main movement. So, yes, it's a
squat. Not very good for quads. So, what
I'm going to do is a leg press variation
that does target quads. Uh, let's do
it. So, this is um the way the same
exercise that I warmed up on, right? So,
we'll start now with uh you know, three
reps, three reps each side. Um, and I'll
show you what I'm going to do. So, feet
low. So, check this out. Most times you
see a leg press, that's what you're
going to see. It's like this position.
Hip dominant. Great exercise, right?
Really strong. That's the same leg
position as what I just did in the
squat. Nothing wrong with it. But I've
just done it on the squat. Now, what I
want to do is this exercise to target
what I didn't do in the squat, which is
quadriceps. So, the way that I do this,
bring my feet closer and lower. And when
I come down, I allow my heels to lift so
that I can achieve full knee bend.
Right? So, if you see my hamstring, how
do you know it's full knee bend? My
hamstring presses against the calf. So
the quadricep, the best way to train the
quadricep is to take it through a full
stretch and a full extension. So that's
where we strengthen that muscle. So the
muscles on the front of the leg through
the fullest range of motion. So here, if
you look at the knee bend, it's not full
knee bend. My hamstring's not touching
my calf. So it's not taking it to the
same range of motion. So therefore,
It's a little bit harder. Um, for sure,
but it doesn't matter. Like, I don't not
in a leg press competition where I'm
trying to shift the heaviest loads. I
want to stimulate muscle. That's what
I'm using this for is to stimulate
muscle
growth. So, what's that? Reps and reps
and sets. I'm going to tell you
something about leg press.
So although this is a strength session,
so this is like a top set of four.
That's low reps. I don't do everything
sets of four. So I hate doing low reps.
What's low reps for a leg press?
Anything under 10. It feels like my head
is going to explode. So I just don't do
it. So for
me, I like to do sets of 20.
And that means I can't lift as heavy,
which is fine because when I do lift
heavy, that's when my head feels like
it's going to explode. Um, so, uh, maybe
two sets of 20. That's it. So, it's not
a lot of sets. You know, that's the
compromise. That's the problem with a
lot of people might think when you're
doing high reps with like an a leg
press, it's fatiguing. Of course, it is.
But, I think it's a very good rep range
for leg press. Whenever I do leg press,
that's my sweet spot is high reps.
Today, we'll go 20. You know, a lot of
my sessions, I'm even doing 25 and 30
rep range for leg press. Um, hopefully
this is a warm
up. Okay, not so bad. Um, next set I'll
say is going to be my top set. So,
that's going to be um five reds each
side, which I swear a lot of people are
way better at leg press than me. Uh, but
I'm better at squatting than them, so
suck it. You know what I mean? The
amount of times I hear people say, "I
leg press this much weight." It's like,
well, I wouldn't have a clue what that
means. You know what I mean? Like, the
only way you really know how strong your
body is is how much you squat. I mean,
how strong your legs are is with a
squat. So that's why powerlifters do
squats. So I think for a test of
strength um squat is the one. But you
know for muscle building arguably the
leg press is better for muscle building.
Um why is it better? When you think of a
muscle when you think of an exercise
where your goal is to build muscle, the
muscle you're targeting needs to be the
limiting factor of the movement. What
does that mean? And it means that that
muscle that you're targeting needs to be
the one that fails first or the reason
why you can't do any more reps. So just
then um why was I unable to do more more
reps on that squat? Was it because of my
legs? Probably not. Like I don't know
what it was. It's my whole body, my
core, my back. I don't know what fails
first with with that weight. Um but I'm
pretty sure it's not my legs. So
therefore, you know, that's the
discussion with that type of squat. it's
not a really good quad building
hypertrophy exercise. Whereas this, I
don't have to worry about my core
because I'm, you know, laying on a on
the machine and that's holding my core
stable. It's holding my entire body
stable. And the only muscles that are
really working are the target muscles,
which is kind of like quads, of course,
glutes as well, but mainly quads. So, if
I fail this, it's because my quads
failed. So, therefore, it was a very
effective quadricep builder. So, this is
probably going to be my top weight.
So, I don't want to talk because all of
a sudden my breathing is going to get
heavy. I got to do one more set. Maybe
about 6 minutes rest for
this. Check out this guy, Alex. Godly
Strong Simon. He's turned all of his
focus to MMA at the moment. He was meant
to have a fight last weekend, but the
guy pulled out, so he's quite light at
the moment. How heavy are you? 138. 138
kg. So, that's an example of someone
that I got to be way stronger than me.
His best squat in competition was 440.
Is that right? 43.
435. And his second ever
competition. He came first in
Australia overall. like the alltime
Australian record in his second
competition. So that was a at the time
the total was 10802 and a half
1077.5 so 435 squat 260 bench 380 2 and
1/2
deadlift so really strong guy but at the
moment he's training to stay strong for
MMA so all of his work is light for him
of course you he'll probably do you know
200 kg on his light squat days So when
he doesn't train, he's still able to do
those levels. But anyway, it's just
another example of someone that uses the
same technique for his squats and squats
a huge amount of weight. We should
insert the video of him squatting that
much weight here. He's very
strong. Time to face the music. Uh,
another set of 20. That's hard.
[Applause]
[__]
O. Ah.
[__] Oh
man. Very big difference with degree of
difficulty from the second set to the
first set. So the first set was hard but
that one was really hard. I have to do
like, you know, 10 then weight, five
then
weight, then three then
weight. So, from a quad standpoint, I'd
like to say quads are done. However,
I'll give you a quick anatomy lesson. I
know a lot of you guys from our last
YouTube video understood these things,
but I'll tell you for those who don't,
quads are four muscles, hence the word
quadricep.
Three of them are called vasis. So vasis
lateralis, vasis mediialis, sorry, vasis
mediialis and vasis
intermediious. But then we have the
fourth one which is called the rectus
forous. The difference the rectus forous
it extends the knee because it crosses
the knee joint just like the other vasis
group. But the rectus forous also
crosses the hip joint. So it's also
responsible for hip joint flexion. Now,
when you squat, so it flexes the knee
and extends, sorry, it flexes the hip
and extends the knee. But when I squat,
I extend the hip and extend the knee.
So they're two conflicting actions. So
when I squat, as I come down in a squat
at my hips, that muscle's shortening.
But then as I bend my knees, that
muscle's lengthening. So they're
conflicting. So while it's trying to
lengthen here, it's trying to shorten
here. The length of the rectus forous
doesn't change. So therefore it doesn't
stimulate much muscle growth in that
muscle. So this is very quad dominant
but only the three heads of the
quadriceps that are only responsible for
knee extension. So great for vasis group
not great for rectus forous. So how do I
train rectus forous isolate it. What's
an isolation
exercise? Leg extension.
So I'll do few sets warming up here. My
legs are already I mean it's not heavy
for the first
set. Okay. So this is how I keep the the
hip. So there's no change at the hip
joint and all I'm doing is using all
four of my quad muscles to extend the
knee. It's funny because a lot of people
have taken that information too far and
they say leg extension is a rectus
forous exercise. They're not wrong
because it is a rectus forous exercise,
but it's an entire quadricep exercise.
It's not that it hits rectus forous more
than any other muscle. It's just that it
does hit the rectus forous while all the
swap patterns do not. So, leg extension
trains all four of the quadricep
muscles. And if you want complete
quadriceps development, you should add
leg extensions to all of your squat
pattern exercises. So, I call it leg
press is a squat pattern. Lunge is a
squat pattern. Barbell squats, squat
pattern. So they're all compound. So
that's bending the hips and bending the
knee at the same time. Not good for
rec. Leg extension only extends the knee
joint. There are other exercises that do
that. One of them is a reverse Nordic,
which is a body weight exercise. You
kind of you bend your knees, you lay
back, and you kind of use your quads to
sit up. Um, yes, it's a good it's a it's
a rectim exercise or complete quad
exercise, but it's not as loadable as
this. So, you don't have a huge amount
of options. If you want to isolate
rectus, leg extension is the one. Now,
um, if you want to do your leg extension
with uh the best way possible, here's
another thought for you is changing this
angle here. Um, so the more upright you
are, the sh the the more you're bending
your hips. So therefore the shorter the
rectus forous is the more you lean
back right so that's exaggerating it
puts the rectus forous at a greater
stretch. So doing your leg extensions
like that is technically allows you to
target the muscle in the lengthen
position which has some advantages over
targeting it in the shortened position.
Both of them are
good, but
technically hitting it in a lengthen
position is slightly better. So after
that exercise, I'll probably do three
top sets, eight reps of a leg extension
to complement that. But that's not the
end of the session. So stay with me and
I'm going to show you some more
exercises to complete my lower body. Not
just quadriceps, we got hamstrings as
well.
So, leg extensions 3x8. Um, that's how
we target the muscles that we've
neglected in all of our squat patterns.
Right? So, now I have complete
quadriceps development. Of course, the
squat also hits the adductors,
especially the low bar squat. It's very
strong for adductors and glutes as well.
So, all those muscles are complete. Now,
the muscles that we didn't touch are
hamstrings. So hamstrings are kind of
active in a squat but not really. So for
the same reason they cross the knee and
the
hip.
So they're responsible for hip extension
and knee flexion. So squat involves knee
ex the hip extension. That's what the
squat involves. But you're bending your
knee at the same time. So that relaxes
the hamstring while you're trying to
lengthen it at the hips. So therefore
they are conflicting actions. Therefore,
hamstrings have very little activation
during your big squat patterns. So,
therefore, you must target the
hamstrings separate to your squat
patterns. Now, there's two main
functions of the hamstrings. One of them
is hip extension. So, RDL, fantastic.
Uh, and also, you know, 45 degree hip
extension, 90 degree hip extension, but
I'll give you a quick anatomy lesson on
the hamstrings. Hamstrings, there's
three muscles, but one of them is a is
called the biceps forous, which is by
means two. So, two heads. So there's
four heads. So two of the biceps and
then semimeronosis semiendinosis. Now
the biceps forous the short head of the
biceps forous doesn't cross the hip
joint. So it's only responsible for knee
joint flexion. So if all you do for
hamstring exercises hip extension,
you're neglecting short head of biceps
forus. It's only one of the four
muscles. But still if you hit the
hamstring curl, you're not neglecting
any of them. So this is how we get the
hamstring curl, the leg extension and
those two first squat patterns. That is
how we get complete development of the
quads, the hamstrings, adductors and
glutes as
well. Still more muscles to hit, right?
And that depends on how in-depth you
want to do it, but I'd probably do that
on another day. Uh the main muscles we'd
be hitting is carbs. I could do them
today, but I'm a little bit tired. I'll
probably hit them on another day. Uh and
then there's other smaller muscles of
the glute. So the glute min and glute me
which are really responsible for um you
know abduction exercises uh which I'm
not going to be doing
today but I'll do a few more sets of
hamstrings. That's pretty much it. I'm
exhausted. Um I'll be doing a few more
sets, but you can probably tell by my
voice and everything I'm I'm just I'm
done. I'm going to do a few more sets.
I'm going to go and eat. Um hope you
enjoyed today's session. Click like,
subscribe, all that stuff. And I'll see
you next time. Take care, guys.
still here. Still here. My mic is still
on.
Um, what was I going to say,
man? What was I going to
say? [__] not
much. I've got nothing else to say. I'm
so done.